[ESC] GH Login Provider (#12527)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/esc/integrations/dynamic-login-credentials/gh-login.md

meta_desc: The gh-login Pulumi ESC Provider enables you to log in to GitHub using app credentials.
title: gh-login
h1: gh-login
meta_image: /images/docs/meta-images/docs-meta.png
menu:
  esc:
    identifier: gh-login
    parent: esc-dynamic-login-credentials
    weight: 4
aliases:
    - /docs/pulumi-cloud/esc/providers/gh-login/
    - /docs/esc/providers/gh-login/
---

The gh-login provider enables you to log in to GitHub using app credentials. The provider will return an
installation access token that can be used to access the GitHub API and repositories.

The provider works as a GitHub App to produce an installation access token for the specified GitHub account, as described
in "[Authenticating as a GitHub App installation](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/authenticating-as-a-github-app-installation)".
Use the token with the [Pulumi ESC GitHub Action](/docs/esc/integrations/dev-tools/github/),
the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/), etc. The token will expire after 1 hour.

## App Registration

To use the provider, you must register a new GitHub App into your personal GitHub account or an organization account.

> Other GitHub accounts then install the application into their account to grant access to you, with the permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other GitHub accounts then install the application into their account to grant you access with the permissions
```

defined by your GitHub App.

- To register an app on a personal account, visit: [https://github.com/settings/apps/new](https://github.com/settings/apps/new?contents=read&metadata=read&webhook_active=false&description=Enables%20access%20for%20a%20Pulumi%20ESC%20environment.&url=https://www.pulumi.com/product/esc/).

- To register an app on an organization account, visit: [https://github.com/organizations/ORGANIZATION/settings/apps/new](https://github.com/organizations/ORGANIZATION/settings/apps/new?contents=read&metadata=read&webhook_active=false&description=Enables%20access%20for%20a%20Pulumi%20ESC%20environment.&url=https://www.pulumi.com/product/esc/).
Replace ORGANIZATION with the name of the organization where you'd like to register the app.

It is fine to deploy a separate GitHub app for each Pulumi environment, or to reuse an app across environments.

> Consider storing the app's credentials in a reusable environment that you import as-needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommend that you store the app’s credentials in a reusable environment that you can import as needed.
```
